Add a "Visualizers and Overrides" concept page (#6679)
rerun-io/rerun: docs/content/concepts/visualizers-and-overrides.md

*Note*: this area is under heavy development and subject to changes in future releases.

## How are visualizations produced?

[![image.png](https://i.postimg.cc/FRjRzX5g/image.png)](https://postimg.cc/47xZ2M3m)

In the Rerun viewer, visualizations happen within _views_, which are defined by their [_blueprint_](blueprint.md).

The first step for a view to display its content is to determine which entities are involved. This is determined 
by the [entity query](../reference/entity-queries.md), which is part of the view blueprint. The query is run against the data store to generate the list of view entities.

Views rely on visualizers to display each of their entities. For example, [3D views](../reference/types/views/spatial3d_view.md) use the `Points3D` visualizer to display 3D point clouds, and [time series views](../reference/types/views/time_series_view.md) use the `SeriesLine` visualizer to display time series line plots. Which visualizers are available is highly dependent on the specific kind of view. For example, the `SeriesLine` visualizer only exist for time series views—not, e.g., 3D views.

> For a given view, visualizers are selected for each of its entities based on their content. For example, in a 3D view, an entity containing a [`Position3D`](../reference/types/components/position3d.md) results in a `Points3D` visualizer being selected by default. (We will see that the visualizer selection process can be influenced by both the user interface and the blueprints.)

Reviewer: This is slightly incorrect.

If an entity contains Position3D component it is compatible with the Points3D visualizer. To be compatible with Visualizer, an entity must have all of the required components.

The thing that makes it selected by default is the Points3DIndicator component that is also logged when you use the Points3D archetype.

If you just log Position3DBatch without the Points3D archetype, then you will have to instantiate the visualizer manually.

Author: Thanks. I wasn't sure if we had this strong indicator<->visualiser relationship in place already.

In the Rerun viewer, visualizations happen within _views_, which are defined by their [_blueprint_](blueprint.md).

The first step for a view to display its content is to determine which entities are involved.
This is determined by the [entity query](../reference/entity-queries.md), which is part of the view blueprint.
The query is run against the data store to generate the list of view entities.

Views rely on visualizers to display each of their entities. For example, [3D views](../reference/types/views/spatial3d_view.md) use the `Points3D` visualizer to display 3D point clouds, and [time series views](../reference/types/views/time_series_view.md) use the `SeriesLine` visualizer to display time series line plots. Which visualizers are available is highly dependent on the specific kind of view. For example, the `SeriesLine` visualizer only exist for time series views—not, e.g., 3D views.

For a given view, visualizers are selected for each of its entities based on their content.
By default, visualizers are selected for entities logged with a corresponding [archetype](../reference/types/archetypes.md).

> For example, in a 3D view, an entity logged with the [`PointsD`](../reference/types/archetypes/points3d.md) results in the `Points3D` visualizer being selected by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, in a 3D view, an entity logged with the [`Points3D`](../reference/types/archetypes/points3d.md) results in the `Points3D` visualizer being selected by default.

<!-- schematics source: https://excalidraw.com/#json=8G274_acK-zYc7Cq2ONf0,GaIabh3FBulcjNx9ZqJrXg -->

<picture>
  <img src="https://static.rerun.io/viscomp-base/dbe3202b78ff44e35dab0844b3494e3a68c7e551/full.png" alt="">
  <source media="(max-width: 480px)" srcset="https://static.rerun.io/viscomp-base/dbe3202b78ff44e35dab0844b3494e3a68c7e551/480w.png">
  <source media="(max-width: 768px)" srcset="https://static.rerun.io/viscomp-base/dbe3202b78ff44e35dab0844b3494e3a68c7e551/768w.png">
  <source media="(max-width: 1024px)" srcset="https://static.rerun.io/viscomp-base/dbe3202b78ff44e35dab0844b3494e3a68c7e551/1024w.png">
  <source media="(max-width: 1200px)" srcset="https://static.rerun.io/viscomp-base/dbe3202b78ff44e35dab0844b3494e3a68c7e551/1200w.png">
</picture>

In the Rerun viewer, visualizations happen within _views_, which are defined by their [_blueprint_](blueprint.md).

The first step for a view to display its content is to determine which entities are involved.
This is determined by the [entity query](../reference/entity-queries.md), which is part of the view blueprint.
The query is run against the data store to generate the list of view entities.

> Views rely on visualizers to display each of their entities. For example, [3D views](../reference/types/views/spatial3d_view.md) use the `Points3D` visualizer to display 3D point clouds, and [time series views](../reference/types/views/time_series_view.md) use the `SeriesLine` visualizer to display time series line plots. Which visualizers are available is highly dependent on the specific kind of view. For example, the `SeriesLine` visualizer only exist for time series views—not, e.g., 3D views.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Views rely on visualizers to display each of their entities. For example, [3D views](../reference/types/views/spatial3d_view.md) use the `Points3D` visualizer to display 3D point clouds, and [time series views](../reference/types/views/time_series_view.md) use the `SeriesLine` visualizer to display time series line plots. Which visualizers are available is highly dependent on the specific kind of view. For example, the `SeriesLine` visualizer only exist for time series views — not, e.g., for 3D views.
```

Author: This is actually a em-dash (not visible with monospace font) and I exploit the lack of style guide to decide that we dont use spaces around it :) A cursory look indicates that I'm mostly the only one to actually use them, so I'm not infringing on some untold consistency rule 😅 

Here is how it looks IRL (I'm taking that "for" in):
<img width="496" alt="image" src="https://github.com/rerun-io/rerun/assets/49431240/a4ac90a0-727f-413b-9f59-70b34ab56b76">

Author: Background: https://www.merriam-webster.com/grammar/em-dash-en-dash-how-to-use (last paragraph covers spacing)

Reviewer 3: 🤯

> For a given view, visualizers are selected for each of its entities based on their content.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For a given view, each entity's components determine which visualizers are available.
```
Let's not call both availability and decision-of-what-to-use "selected"

By default, visualizers are selected for entities logged with a corresponding [archetype](../reference/types/archetypes.md).

> For example, in a 3D view, an entity logged with the [`Points3D`](../reference/types/archetypes/points3d.md) results in the `Points3D` visualizer being selected by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, in a 3D view, an entity logged with the [`Points3D`](../reference/types/archetypes/points3d.md) archetype results in the `Points3D` visualizer being selected by default.

This happens because [archetypes](../reference/types/archetypes.md) include an _indicator component_ to capture the intent of the logging code.
This indicator component in turn triggers the default activation of the associated visualizer.
(We will see that this process can be influenced by both the user interface and the blueprints.)

Then, each selected visualizer determines the values for the components it supports. For example, the `Points3D` visualizer handles, among others, the [`Position3D`](../reference/types/components/position3d.md), [`Radius`](../reference/types/components/radius.md), and [`Color`](../reference/types/components/color.md) components. For each of these (and the others it also supports), the visualizer must determine a value. By default, it will use the value that was logged to the data store, if any. Otherwise, it will use some fallback value that

>  depends on the actual type of visualizer and view. (Again, we will see that this can be influenced by the user interface and the blueprint.)

Reviewer 3: I'd drop that here since it sounds like we're influencing the fallback.
```suggestion
 depends on the actual type of visualizer and view.
```
Also this is already the longest block without picture or snippet :)

  <source media="(max-width: 480px)" srcset="https://static.rerun.io/viscomp-component-override-screenshot/cfd1498e18279734a2d494778bf2e6b603b3b44e/480w.png">
</picture>

The override is listed above the store and fallback value since it has precedence. It can also be edited or removed from the user interface.

## Per-view component default

<picture>
  <img src="https://static.rerun.io/viscomp-component-default/1a1dd1cc3c98418976f95142556aade0e0eec63c/full.png" alt="">
  <source media="(max-width: 480px)" srcset="https://static.rerun.io/viscomp-component-default/1a1dd1cc3c98418976f95142556aade0e0eec63c/480w.png">
  <source media="(max-width: 768px)" srcset="https://static.rerun.io/viscomp-component-default/1a1dd1cc3c98418976f95142556aade0e0eec63c/768w.png">
  <source media="(max-width: 1024px)" srcset="https://static.rerun.io/viscomp-component-default/1a1dd1cc3c98418976f95142556aade0e0eec63c/1024w.png">
  <source media="(max-width: 1200px)" srcset="https://static.rerun.io/viscomp-component-default/1a1dd1cc3c98418976f95142556aade0e0eec63c/1200w.png">
</picture>

> The blueprint may also specify a default value for all components of a given type, should their value not be logged to the store or overridden for a given view entity. This makes it easy to configure visual properties for a potentially large number of entities a view may contain.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The blueprint may also specify a default value for all components of a given type, should their value not be logged to the store or overridden for a given view entity. This makes it easy to configure visual properties for a potentially large number of entities.
```
